
--- Page 1 ---
Public Administration Circular : 09/2026 
  
My No : EST-6/03/LEA/1060(i) 
Ministry of Public Administration 
Provincial Councils and Local Government  
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 
 
17.03.2026 
 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments 
Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards 
 
Taking Steps to Face the Potential Difficulties in Fuel Supply in the Future, 
Due to the War Situation that has Arisen within the Middle East Region 
 
A significant amount of fuel is consumed for the transportation requirements of officers and 
for maintaining the daily operations of government offices. Accordingly, to face a potential 
uncertainty in the fuel supply arising from the ongoing armed conflicts in the Middle East 
region, existing fuel reserves must be utilized economically. In view of this situation and to 
prioritize the maintenance of essential services, the Cabinet of Ministers has decided at the 
meeting held on 16.03.2026 to take action in the following manner with regard to the 
operation of government offices.  
 
02.  
Every Wednesday shall be considered a holiday for operations of government offices 
until further notice. Accordingly, duties currently performed on Wednesday should be 
scheduled to Tuesday of the same week. However, in case where the Head of the Institution 
decides that a certain officer should be deployed for service on the said day, this shall not be 
a hindrance to calling the relevant officer for duty and holiday pay, overtime or lieu leave 
shall not be granted for this purpose. 
 
03.  
In departments where the necessary technological facilities are already available to 
facilitate the performance of assigned duties without requiring the physical presence of an 
officer, Heads of Departments/ Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards may make 
arrangements to obtain the services of such officer without calling him/her to the workplace. 
 
04.  
Further, officers of the offices that remain closed on Wednesday shall not be deployed 
for service on Saturdays, Sundays or public holidays of that week on the basis of overtime 
payment, holiday pay or granting of lieu leave. 
 
 
05.  
However, in case where it is required to call officers for duty on Saturday, Sunday or 
public holiday on exigency of service, the relevant Head of the Institution may do so with the 
approval of the Secretary of the Ministry/ Chief Secretary of the Province/ Head of the 
Department/ Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards. The officers who are called 
for duty in the above manner may be granted overtime allowances, holiday pay or lieu leave. 
Further, the authority to call the officers required for duties related to the disasters caused by 
Cyclone "Ditwah" is vested in the respective District Secretaries.
--- Page 2 ---
06.  
The Judicial Service Commission shall provide the necessary instructions with regard 
to calling officers to institutions within the judicial sector. 
 
07.  
The Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational 
Education shall issue the necessary instructions with regard to the operation of schools and 
other educational institutions under the purview of the Ministry during this period. 
 
08.  
In case where an issue arises when implementing the provisions of this circular in 
relation to State Corporations and Statutory Boards, action should be taken in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development. 
 
09.  
Further, necessary steps must be taken to refrain from organizing the events such as 
ceremonies and conferences organized by government institutions. It is further emphasized 
that attention should be paid to Public Administration Circular 04/2022 dated 08.03.2022 on 
the economical use of electricity and fuel for the management of government expenditure. 
 
10.  
Moreover, these provisions shall not be a hindrance to the maintenance of essential 
services of the government and provisions of this circular shall not apply to institutions 
providing such essential services as well as to any institution that a Secretary of Ministry/ 
Chief Secretary of the Province/ Head of State Corporation and Statutory Board determines 
must remain open on Wednesdays. Such institutions shall treat the said day as a normal 
working day. Similarly, the provisions of this circular shall not apply to government 
institutions that are already deploying officers under a roster system. 
 
 
Sgd/ S. Alokabandara 
Secretary 
Ministry of Public Administration,  
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
 
 
Telephone 
:  011-2699399 
 
Fax 
 
:  011-2692158 
 
Email address : ad-6-est@pubad.gov.lk