
--- Page 1 ---
Public Administration Circular : 11/2026 
 
My number : EST-4/03/PMT/0201(I) 
Ministry of Public Administration,  
Provincial Councils and Local Government 
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 
 
                                                                           30.04.2026 
 
Secretaries to Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Heads of Departments 
Heads of State Corporations and Statutory Boards  
 
Granting Permanent Appointments to the Employees Recruited on a Temporary, 
Casual (on Daily Wages), Substitute, Contract or Relief Basis to Serve in 
Institutions in the Public Sector in Accordance with Budget 2026 
 
 
As stated in the Budget Proposals 2026, a decision has been taken at the meeting of the 
Cabinet of Ministers held on 27.04.2026 to take action as per the provisions of this circular 
regarding employees currently serving on a temporary, casual (on daily wages), substitute, 
contract or relief basis in institutions in the public sector and employees who, after having 
served on temporary, casual (on daily wages), substitute, contract or relief basis, have 
received permanent appointments in accordance with the provisions of the relevant circulars, 
but whose appointments are not formal. 
 
02. 
The employees currently in service who have satisfied the following qualifications as 
of 01.09.2019 in accordance with Public Administration Circular 29/2019 dated 
18.09.2019, which brought Public Administration Circulars 25/2014 and 25/2014(I) 
again into effect, should be granted permanent appointments with effect from 
01.09.2019. For this purpose, 
 
I. They must have completed a satisfactory and continuous service period of 180 
working days as of 01.09.2019. (No service break will occur due to formal leave 
days and public holidays.)  
 
II. They must have satisfied the prescribed qualifications for the relevant post 
according to Public Administration Circular 29/2019, which brought Public 
Administration Circulars 25/2014 and 25/2014(I) again into effect. 
 
III. They must belong to the Service Categories indicated in Public Administration 
Circular 25/2014 and at present, they must be continuously engaged in the same 
post/same institution in which they satisfied the qualifications as at 01.09.2019, 
within the same salary scale.   
 
IV. Even though, the permanent appointments shall be effective from 01.09.2019, 
permanent appointments must be granted only if there are vacancies in the approved 
permanent cadre on the date this circular is issued. If there are no vacancies in the 
approved permanent cadre, the permanent appointment must be maintained so as to 
be personal to the holder of the post and the post must be considered abolished
--- Page 2 ---
when it becomes vacant due to the holder of the post being absorbed into another 
service, promoted, retired, resigned or for any other reason.  
 
V. Where the relevant permanent appointment has been made to be personal-to-
holderof the post, no new recruitment must be made when vacancies occur in the 
relevant permanent posts and action must be taken to adjust these employees into 
the said vacancies on the approval of the Director General of Management Services.  
 
VI. The salaries and leave of the officers must be revised to correspond with a 
permanent appointment with effect from the date on which the permanent 
appointment is effective without payment of salaries in arrears. 
 
VII. Action must be taken by the Head of the Institution to organize training courses for 
satisfying the educational qualifications and to grant permanent appointments in 
accordance with Public Administration Circular 25/2014(I) dated 29.12.2014.   
 
03.  Action must be taken by the Heads of the Institutions to submit the particulars with 
regard to the employees who are granted permanent appointments under this circular in 
accordance with the the formats indicated in Annex 01 and 02, to the Director General of 
Management Services for granting approval for the staff of each institution.  
04. Facilities required to satisfy the qualifications for confirmation in their respective posts 
should be provided to the employees receiving permanent appointments as 02 above and 
service confirmation must be granted within one year from the date of issuance of this 
circular, considering that employees currently in active service have completed their 
probation period. Accordingly, the following should be appropriately included under Serial 
Number 06 of the formal letter of appointment issued as per Sections 89 and 90, Chapter VII, 
Appendix 03 of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the 
Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2310/29 dated 
14.12.2022. “Since this appointment is effective from 01.09.2019, the period from the said 
date to the date of granting the permanent appointment shall be considered as the period of 
probation.” 
05. The Chief Accounting Officer/ Head of the Institution must ensure to examine the 
possibility to attach the employees who are in excess in the departmental posts after granting 
permanenet appointments in accordance with 02 above and implement a suitable 
methodology and the Director General of Management Services must be reported in this 
regard. 
 
06. Authority is vested in the Director General of Combined Services to issue formal letters 
of appointment to employees who have served on temporary, casual (on daily wages), 
substitute, contract or relief basis in posts belonging to the Primary Service Category of the 
Combined Services and to attach employees in execess receiving permanent appointments to 
the posts in Combined Service at their current places of work to other places of work where 
vacancies exist. 
 
07. In case where permanent appointments have been granted in accordance with Public 
Administration Circular No. 25/2014 dated 12.11.2014 and Public Administration Circular 
No. 25/2014(I) dated 29.12.2014 and if further approval for such posts is required with regard 
to the requests made by Heads of Institutions to the Department of Management Services, the 
Department of Management Services shall promptly grant the necessary approval.
--- Page 3 ---
08. Action must be taken as per the following conditions in respect of the employees to 
whom permanent appointments cannot be granted as per this circular since they have been 
granted permanent appointments, deviating from the provisions of the circulars issued on 
granting permanent appointments to the employees serving on temporary, casual (on daily 
wages), substitute, contract or relief basis prior to the issuance of Public Administration 
Circular 29/2019 dated 18.09.2019, which brought Public Administration Circulars 25/2014 
and 25/2014(I) again into effect. 
 
i. The permanent appointments of the employees, who have satisfied the other 
qualifications as per the circular and have been granted permanent appointments on 
a date other than the date on which permanent appointments must be granted as per 
the circular to employees who have not exceeded 45 years of age as at the date on 
which they were recruited on temporary, casual (on daily wages), substitute, 
contract or relief basis as per the circulars issued for granting permanent 
appointments to the employees recruited on temporary, casual (on daily wages), 
substitute, contract or relief basis, must be accepted as formal appointments.                 
 
ii. The appointments of the employees who had satisfied the other qualifications as per 
the circulars issued for granting permanent appointments to the employees recruited 
on temporary, casual (on daily wages), substitute, contract or relief basis prior to the 
issuance of Public Administration Circulars 25/2014 and 25/2014(I) but had 
exceeded 45 years of age at the time of appointment on temporary, casual (on daily 
wages), substitute, contract, or relief basis and nonetheless have been granted 
permanent appointments must be hypothetically converted into appointments under 
the Public Service Provident Fund scheme and the benefits that should be granted at 
the end of service should be determined accordingly.  For such appointees who have 
already concluded their service and are not receiving a pension, the government 
contribution due to an appointment under the Public Service Provident Fund, along 
with an amount of Widow's and Orphan's Pension recovered from the employee, if 
any, must be paid to the officer as a lump sum. 
 
09. No permanent appointment must be granted under this circular to any person who is 
otherwise unsuitable for government employment, notwithstanding eligibility for a permanent 
appointment under the preceding provisions. 
 
10. Henceforth, recruitment of a person who has not satisfied the prescribed qualifications 
for the relevant posts and any recruitment outside the approved staff must not be made on 
temporary, casual (on daily wages), substitute, contract or relief basis deviating from the 
approved Scheme of Recruitments or Service Minutes. If such recruitment is made, the 
responsibility for such action must be borne by the Appointing Authority and/or the officer 
signing the letters of appointment, as the case may be. 
 
 
11. This circular is issued with the concurrrence of the General Treasury. 
 
 
 
 
 
         Sgd./ S. Alokabandara  
 
 
                    Secretary 
                                         Ministry of Public Administration,  
                                        Provincial Councilsand Local Government 
 
 
 
 
Telephone : 011-2696478 
 
 
 
Fax 
: 011-2692158 
 
 
 
Email 
: ad-2-est@pubad.gov.lk
--- Page 4 ---
Annex 01 
 
Granting permanent appointments to employees recruited on temporary, casual (on daily-wages), substitute, contract, and 
relief basis as at 01.09.2019 
 
 
Ministry          :............................................... 
Department  :................................................ 
Institution 
 :................................................ 
 
 
Particulars of the employees who have been confirmed 
in service  
Recruitment on temporary, casual 
(on daily-wages), substitute, 
contract, and relief basis  
Granting permanenet appointments 
Name 
Date of 
birth 
N.I.C. number  
Date of 
recruitment  
Post to which the 
employee was 
recruited 
Date of 
granting 
appointments 
Post
--- Page 5 ---
Annex 02 
 
Calling information on posts to which recruitments have been made on temporary, casual (on daily wages), substitute, 
contract and relief basis as at the date 30.04.2026   
 
 
Ministry/ Department/ Institution: ................................................................................... 
 
Designation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a 
Salary Code 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b 
Number of posts 
approved by the 
Department of 
Management Services 
as at 30.04.2026  
 
 
 
c 
Number of 
actual posts 
existing as 
at 
30.04.2026  
 
 
 
d 
Vacancies 
(Surplus / 
shortage)  
 
 
 
 
 
e 
(c-d) 
Number of 
employees to be 
confirmed in service 
as per P.A. Circular 
No. 11/2026 
 
 
 
f 
Surplus/Shortage 
(After taking action 
as per P.A. Circular 
No. 11/2026) 
 
 
 
 
g