
--- Page 1 ---
Public Administration Circular : 17/2026 
 
 
My number : SLAS/R/Merit/2026 
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government  
Independence Square 
Colombo 07. 
 
10.08.2026 
 
Secretaries of Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Secretaries of Commissions 
District Secretaries / Government Agents 
Heads of Departments. 
 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service 
under the Merit Stream -2026 
 
Applications are hereby called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens for recruitment under the merit stream 
to 10 posts in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service which have fallen vacant.  
 
 
01. 
In this notification, the term, "Secretary" shall mean the “Secretary to the Ministry in charge of 
the subject of Public Administration”. The term, "Service" shall mean the “Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service”. 
 
02. 
Method of Recruitment: 
 
Recruitment shall be made considering the total marks obtained at a written examination, an evaluation of 
seniority and a structured interview.   
 
Accordingly, recruitments shall be made on the order of the merit of the applicants, as per the total marks 
scored in the written examination, seniority and structured interview, to fill the existing number of 
vacancies in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.  
 
The relevant vacancies will be filled considering the recruitments applied for by the applicants and 
whether the applicants have completed the required qualifications related to those recruitments by the date 
on which those qualifications should be completed. 
 
The number of appointments and the effective date of the appointment shall be determined as per the 
order of the Public Service Commission. 
 
2.1 Written Examination:  
 
The written examination shall consist of the following three (03) question papers.  
 
1. General intelligence.  
 
2. Establishments Code, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission
--- Page 2 ---
3. Government Financial Regulations and Procurement Process 
 
2.2 Date of Examination:  
 
This examination will be held in the month of November 2026 only in Colombo. The Secretary reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel this examination, subject to the instructions of the Public Service 
Commission.  
 
2.3. Interview:  
 
The general and structured interviews will be held for the candidates who appeared for all the question 
papers of the written examination and obtained the highest aggregate marks for the written examination 
and seniority as determined by the Public Service Commission as adequate. The date of the interviews 
shall be determined by the Secretary as per the instructions of the Public Service Commission.   
 
03. 
Conditions of Service:  
 
3.1 A selected candidate will be appointed to Grade III of the service subject to the general 
conditions governing the appointments of the public service, the terms and conditions set 
out in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any amendments made or to be made to the Minute hereinafter, the provisions 
of the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka and the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission 
published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2310/29 dated 14.12.2022.  
 
3.2 This post is permanent and pensionable.  The candidates are required to contribute to the 
Widows’/ Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme. 
 
3.3 This appointment is subject to a probation period of one year. The candidates should pass 
the first efficiency bar examination within 03 years from the date of appointment as 
mentioned in the service minute.  
 
3.4 The candidates who are appointed to this post should acquire proficiency in the prescribed 
other official language / official languages as per Public Administration Circular No. 
18/2020 dated 16.10.2020.  
 
3.5 The appointments of the applicants who fail to assume duties of the post offered to him 
and / or reject or avoid the assumption of duties in a post or an area where he is 
appointed, on the prescribed date shall be cancelled upon the orders of the Public Service 
Commission.  
 
04. 
Monthly Salary Scale:   
 
The Monthly Salary Scale applicable to this post as per the provisions of Public Administration 
Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025 is Rs. 82,150-10x2,400-8x2,940-17x3,900 -195,970/- ( SL-1-
2025). In addition to that, you will also be entitled to other allowances paid to public officers by the 
government from time to time.
--- Page 3 ---
05. 
Qualifications for Recruitment:  
 
5.1 Relevant Qualifications and Experience -  
 
i. 
Should be an officer in a permanent and pensionable post in Supra Class of the 
Management Service Officers’ Service or Provincial Management Service Officers’ Service.   
or 
ii. Should be an officer with an active and satisfactory service period of not less than twenty 
(20) years in the Management Service Officers’ Service or Provincial Management Service 
Officers’ Service, including an active and satisfactory service period of ten (10) years in 
Grade I of the said service.  
 
Note: 
 
The total of the continuous periods of service in the public service and /or provincial public 
service is considered when calculating the above mentioned period of service. When calculating 
marks on seniority, an event of appointing to a certain post on a supernumerary basis, antedating 
appointments or an event of acting / performing duties in a certain post will not be considered, 
and the substantive post will only be considered. 
 
5.2 Age and Other Qualifications to be Completed 
 
i. 
Should be not more than fifty five (55) years of age.  
ii. Should have been confirmed in a service / post mentioned in 5.1 above. 
iii. Should have a satisfactory service record and in accordance with the provisions of Public 
Service Commission circular no 01/2020 and its’ amendments should not have been 
subjected to any disciplinary punishment during his / her entire period of service.  
iv. Should have earned all salary increments in the immediately preceding five years as at the 
date on which qualifications should be completed.  
 
5.3 Restrictions Regarding Qualifications: 
 
i. No candidate is allowed to sit for the Competitive Examination for Recruitment on Merit 
Basis more than three (03) times.   
ii. All the qualifications required to apply for this examination shall have been satisfied in 
every respect as at 10.08.2026 
iii. No person who is ordained in any religious order shall be allowed to sit for this 
examination. 
iv. Officers who have retired from service before the closing date of applications are not 
eligible to apply for this competitive examination. 
 
06. 
 
Method of Recruitment: 
 
6.1 Written Examination:
--- Page 4 ---
A written examination constituting three (03) question papers in the following subjects will 
be conducted. The minimum marks required for passing each subject are as follows. The 
applicants should sit for all the question papers.  
 
 
Subject 
Duration 
Marks 
Minimum 
marks 
required for 
passing 
 
 
1 
General intelligence. 
1 ½  hours 
100 
50 
2 
Establishments Code, Procedural Rules of the 
Public Service Commission 
3 hours 
100 
50 
3 
Financial Regulations of the government and 
Procurement Process 
3 hours 
100 
50 
 
Syllabus: 
 
i. General Intelligence. 
It is expected to assess the intelligence level of the candidate in analytical skills, logical 
comprehension, interpretative ability, ability in application to other situations and arriving 
at conclusions in response to problems presented to the candidate in relation to numerical, 
lingual and figurative structures and inter-relations. 
This question paper consists of multiple-choice questions. All questions should be 
answered.  
 
ii. Establishments Code, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission. 
It is expected to assess the candidates’ knowledge of the Establishments Code and the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission.  
This question paper will consist of multiple-choice questions, questions for short answers, 
structured essay type questions and essay type questions. All questions should be answered. 
 
iii. Financial Regulations of the government and Procurement Process 
It is expected to assess the candidates’ knowledge of the financial regulations of the 
government and the public procurement process.   
This question paper will consist of multiple-choice questions, questions for short answers, 
structured essay type questions and essay type questions. All questions should be answered. 
 
6.2 Seniority  
 
The maximum marks given for seniority is one hundred (100).  Marks for seniority shall be 
calculated in the following manner. 
 
(a)  
i. Ten marks (10) for each year served in a post in a Supra Class of Management Service 
Officers’ Service
--- Page 5 ---
ii. Eight marks (08) for each year after completing an active period of twenty (20) years in 
the Management Service Officers’ Service, for officers in Class I of the Management 
Service Officers’ Service   
 
(b)  Marks shall be allocated only for active and satisfactory period of service 
 
(c)  No marks shall be given for a period less than six months. However, for a period of more than 
06 months and less than one year, five (05) marks shall be allocated for an officer in Supra 
Class of the Management Service Officers’ Service, and four (04) marks for an officer in 
Class I of the Management Service Officers’ Service.   
 
(d) Dates on which an appointment was granted on supernumerary basis or appointments were 
antedated shall not be considered when calculating marks for seniority, and the period of 
service shall be calculated on the basis of the date on which duties of the relevant post were 
assumed.  
 
(e) If there is a period which is covered from a (ii) above, marks relevant for such period shall be 
allocated when calculating marks for the seniority of an officer who is in Supra Class of 
Management Service Officers’ Service or Provincial Management Service Officers’ Service. 
 
(f) Marks for seniority for the applicants who secure 50 marks or above for all 03 subjects of the 
written examination as mentioned in Section 6.1 of this circular shall be calculated by the 
Secretary with the approval of the Public Service Commission. Applicants should forward the 
following documents to the Secretary with the certification of the respective Head of the 
Department as true copies, when notified. 
 
1. First appointment letter by which he / she was appointed to the Management Service 
Officers’, Clerical, Stenographers’, Typists’, Book Keepers’, Shroffs’ or Store 
Keepers’ Service in the public or provincial public service and the letter of 
assumption of duties. 
2. Relevant letters of promotions (Class II, Class I, Supra Class) 
3. Letter of assumption of duties in Supra Class  
4. Particulars of release from the provincial public service or the central government, if 
any 
5. Letter of absorption to Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Service  
6. Particulars of disciplinary orders 
7. Service Confirmation Letter 
8. The copy of the application certified by the Head of the Institution, which has been    
included in the personal file 
9. Letter of confirmation of service 
 
 
6.3. Interviews 
 
The interview consists of two (02) parts: the general interview and the structured interview. 
 
(a) General Interview
--- Page 6 ---
(i) The general interview is held to verify whether the candidate has satisfied qualifications  
for recruitment mentioned in No. 05 above and whether the qualifications fall within the 
prescriptions made in the note therein.   
 
(ii) The general interview board is appointed by the Public Service Commission.  
 
 
 
(b) Structured Interview 
(i) A structured interview will be conducted in line with the below-mentioned procedure by 
an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission to measure the management 
skills, leadership qualities, communication skills and personality of the candidates.  The 
maximum marks that can be obtained at the interview are twenty five (25). 
 
Subject area 
Maximum marks 
01 
Management Skills 
10 
02 
Leadership qualities 
05 
03 
Communication Skills 
05 
04 
Personality 
05 
 
Total 
25 
 
I. 
Candidates who secure the highest marks according to the total marks, which is the aggregate of 
marks obtained for all subjects and the marks for seniority, shall be qualified to appear for the general 
interview out of the candidates who secure minimum of 50% of marks or above for each subject. Out 
of the candidates who were qualified, a number of candidates which shall be the aggregate of the 
number of recruitments to be made according to the number of vacancies and 25% of the number of 
vacancies to be filled, shall strictly be called for the general interview. In instances where the number 
of qualified candidates is less than the above number, only the qualified candidates shall be called for 
the general interview.  
 
II. 
The general interview shall be conducted before the structured interview for verification of 
qualifications, and marks shall not be allocated at the general interview. Only the candidates who are 
proved to have possessed all the qualifications for recruitment at the general interview shall be 
eligible to be called for the structured interview. If a certain number of candidates called for the 
general interview are not qualified to be called for the structured interview, no other candidates shall 
be called for the general interview in place of the disqualified candidates. 
 
III. 
The officers who have retired from the service before the date of the interview shall not be called for 
the interview.  
 
N. B.  
Participation in the interview does not necessarily mean that the candidate has satisfied the qualifications 
to be granted an appointment.  
[ 
 
07. Examination fees:   
Examination fee is Rs.1200.00. When the examination fee is paid, payments should be made only 
through the following payment methods provided in the online system. 
 
i. 
Any Bank Credit Card 
ii. Any Bank Debit Card with internet payment facility
--- Page 7 ---
iii. Bank of Ceylon Online Banking Method  
iv. Bank of Ceylon Teller Slip Payment 
 
Note: Instructions on the manner in which the payments are made through the above methods are 
published under Technical Instructions related to this examination on the website of the 
Department of Examinations.  
 
The acknowledgment of the payment will be informed by an SMS or email. The full amount of the 
examination fee should be paid, and applications for which the payments have been made less or 
more than the examination fee will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be 
responsible for the errors occurring in the payment of examination fees by the above payment 
methods. 
 
08. 
Method of Application:  
 
(a) The application has been published on the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka, www.doenets.lk under “Our Services” trough “Online Applications – Recruitment 
Exams/ E.B. Exams” and applications should be submitted strictly online. Accepting online 
applications will commence on 14th of August 2026 at 9.00 a.m. and end on 14th September of 
2026 at 9.00 p.m. 
(b) Whether the soft copy submitted online by the applicant has been accepted or not accepted by 
the Department as a valid application will be notified via SMS to the mobile phone number 
used to access the system or to the email address. The instructions sheet should be 
downloaded before completing the online application and the instructions therein should be 
strictly followed. No revision made to the application after obtaining a printed copy shall be 
considered valid. Incomplete applications shall be rejected without notice.  
(c) Officers must hand over a copy of the application to their Heads of Institution to be included 
in their personal file. The official date stamp should be placed on the applications completed 
and submitted by the officers on the date on which the office receives the application and it is 
the responsibility of the Head of the Department / Secretary of the Ministry to place the 
official stamp certifying that the particulars provided by the candidates are correct and include 
it in the personal file. 
(d) Applications of the officers who have been released temporarily or on secondment basis, to 
serve in Cooperation or a Statutory Board shall be certified and sent in the above manner by 
the Secretary of the Ministry. 
(e) The applicant must bear any adverse consequences resulting from delaying the submission of 
applications until the closing date. 
(f)  The post and place of work of the applicants at the time of applying for the examination is 
considered for all matters with regard to the examination and the changes that occur after 
sending the applications will not be considered.  
(g) Applications that are not completed in every aspect will be rejected.  No complaints about the 
loss or delay of the applications will be entertained.
--- Page 8 ---
09. Admission Cards: 
On the assumption that only those who possess the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
Notification have sent applications, the Commissioner General of Examinations will issue 
admission cards strictly online to the applicants who have paid the relevant examination fees and 
dully perfected the application along with the said receipt on or before the closing date of 
applications submitted their applications. Applicants will be notified by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka via an SMS or web notice as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
them. In case where the admission card is not received, steps should be taken to make inquiries 
thereon from the Institutional Examination Organization Branch, Department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the notice.  When informing, it will be productive to send a letter of request 
to the email address mentioned in the notification indicating the name of the examination applied 
for, full name, address and the National Identity Card number of the candidate in the letter and send 
it. It would be advisable to keep the photo copy of the perfected application form in hand to confirm 
any matter inquired about by the Department of Examinations. If any revisions are required after 
checking the admission card, the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka should be contacted 
early and the relevant revisions should be made as per the application. Requests made at the 
examination hall or interview to make revisions will not be considered.  
 
 
10. Admission to the Examination : 
 
(a) On the assumption that only those who possess the qualifications mentioned in this circular 
have sent applications, the Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards 
to the applicants who fall within the age limit specified in the notice and who have paid the 
relevant examination fees and duly submitted their applications through the online system and 
on or before the closing date of applications. 
 
(b) A candidate should sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to them. Every 
candidate should get his admission card attested in advance and produce it to the supervisor of 
the hall on the first day he presents himself for the examination.  
 
(c) Candidates shall be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the examination. They are liable to be subjected to a 
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of these rules 
and regulations. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard 
to the results of the examination shall be final. 
 
Note: The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he or she has 
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the examination. 
 
 
11. Identity of Candidates : 
 
Candidates of the examination shall be required to prove his / her identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he / she appears for. For this purpose, strictly the 
following documents will be accepted. 
 
(i)  National Identity Card  
 
(ii) Valid Passport. 
 
(iii) Valid Driving License
--- Page 9 ---
Candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their faces, enabling the verification of 
their identity and without covering ears enabling the verification of the fact that they are not wearing 
electronic devices which are used for communication. Those who refuse to verify their identity as 
such shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall. Further, candidates should keep their faces 
and ears uncovered until they leave the examination hall. 
 
 
12. Penalty for Furnishing False Information: 
 
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is liable to be canceled at any stage prior 
to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with 
knowledge that it is false, or if he / she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be 
liable for dismissal from the Public Service.         
 
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations shall be dealt with as determined by the Secretary 
subject to the instructions given by the Public Service Commission.        
 
14. Procedure of Examination and Medium of Examination: 
 
(a) This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. 
(b) Candidates should sit the examination in the language medium in which they have passed the 
qualifying examination / interview for entry into the public service or in one of the official languages. 
 
Note-  
i. Candidates should answer all question papers in one medium of language. 
ii. Candidates will not be allowed to change the medium of examination mentioned in the 
application form. 
 
15. The Public Service Commission will take a decision with regard to the appointment of any candidate 
who becomes disqualified under the regulations and provisions that are in effect at the time of 
appointment or due to the unsatisfactory work and conduct of the candidate. 
 
16. The Public Service Commission shall reserve the right not to fill a certain number of vacancies or all 
the vacancies and to take decisions on the matters not referred to herein. 
 
17. Upon being informed of the appropriate date for releasing the results by the Appointing Authority, the 
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, will take steps to send a result sheet containing the marks 
obtained for each subject/ total marks to all candidates who sat for the examination by post or to 
release the results through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk.  
 
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Public 
Administration Circular, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
On the order of the Public Service Commission, 
 
 
 
 
      Sgd/ S. Alokabandara 
      Secretary 
      Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government 
 
      Telephone       : 0112-698605 
    Email address  : pubad.dslas@gmail.com