
--- Page 1 ---
Public Administration Circular : 24/2026 
 
                                                                                               
My No : PA/PSRD/02/19/1 
                                             
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local 
Government, 
 
Independence Square 
 
Colombo 07. 
 
2026.09.23 
 
Secretaries of Ministries 
Chief Secretaries of Provinces 
Secretaries of Commissions 
District Secretaries/ Heads of Departments 
 
 
Human Resource Management Information System of the Public Service - GovHR 
Entry of Information for User Profiles 
 
The Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government has introduced the 
Public Service Human Resource Management Information System – GovHR to carry out human 
resource management processes online, including recruitment, confirmation, promotion, transfer, and 
retirement in the public service. 
 
02. 
In the first phase, the system is expected to be implemented for the following six (06) all-
island services and three (03) combined services 
 
 
All -island services 
 
Combined Services 
i. Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service 
i. Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service 
ii. Sri Lanka Planning Service 
ii. Government Translators’ Service 
iii. Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service 
iii. Sri Lanka Librarians’ Service 
iv. Sri Lanka Engineering Service 
 
v. Sri Lanka Scientific Service 
 
vi. Sri Lanka Architects’ Service 
 
 
03. 
The GovHR system will send a text message (SMS) to the mobile phones of officers 
belonging to the above mentioned services in your Ministry, Provincial Council, Commission Office, 
District Secretariat, Departments, and all government institutions, providing their User Name, 
Password, and the URL https://govhr.gov.lk to access this information system. 
 
04. 
After logging into the GovHR system for the first time via the above mentioned link using the 
username and password, the password must be changed immediately. Subsequently, officers 
belonging to the services mentioned in Paragraph 02 must enter their information and complete their 
User Profile. The User Manual and video containing guidelines on completing the User Profile can be 
downloaded via the link https://govhr.gov.lk. 
 
05. 
Since human resource management processes such as service confirmations, transfers, and 
promotions for officers in the aforementioned services will be carried out exclusively through this 
system in the future, it is essential that the user profile is completed accurately prior to that. 
 
06. 
Therefore, you are kindly informed to notify the officers belonging to the services mentioned 
in Paragraph 02 above to enter the relevant information. 
 
07. 
If the username or password has not been received, or if there is any issue accessing the 
GovHR system, the issues can be resolved by calling the telephone numbers below or by sending an 
email.
--- Page 2 ---
0112696211/13      Ext 812 – Information Technology Division     - itdinfo@pubad.gov.lk 
0112166000           Ext 138 – Public Service Reforms Division  - reformsdiv@pubad.gov.lk 
0112196604                         - Public Service Reforms Division   
                      ෙ  
08. 
Furthermore, instructions regarding the execution of human resource processes online via the 
GovHR system will be issued in the future. 
 
09. 
As this human resource management system has been established as a crucial step toward 
delivering a more efficient and smart public service through the digitalization of the public sector, 
your cooperation in making this effort a success is highly appreciated 
 
 
 
 
Sgd/ S. Alokabandara 
Secretary 
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local 
Government 
 
                                                                                     
            Telephone           : 0112662340 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Fax              
 : 0112695279 
                                                                                                       Email Address   :info@pubad.gov.lk